25-acre farm is no more.
Not a viable enterprise.
And the number of gins has decreased.
Decreased.
And the labor force has decreased considerably.
Because the crop is so highly mechanized all the way through.
very little hand labor is used in the crop anymore.
Looking back, can you think of any research task you wish you had attempted that you didn't now in hindsight?
No.
Is there any that you proposed that some, that didn't get supported?
Yes, but they would have been variations
in what I was already doing.
Oh, okay.
So, so it was no, no major... No.
I had no major disappointments in my... Right.
As you, as you look back on those more than three decades, to whom do you feel the most grateful?
The, your, of your associates?
The most... Certainly Dr. Tom Richmond would have to be number one.
Morris Bloodworth,
was a big help to me.
Charlie Lewis, Maeda Brown, Fred Elliott, certainly.
He taught me a lot about the practical side of cotton in Texas.
For example?
Where it's grown, who does it, how they do it.
why they don't do something else, and all the intricacies and the oddities.
Little things I remember still in my mind, Fred explaining things to me.
I'd look at, what's that all about?
I can remember one of my very first trips with Fred Elliott, we went to the Lower Rio Grande Valley.
We're driving down Highway 77, the other side of Lincoln,
on Highway 21 before we hit 77.
I remember looking over there and seeing piles of trees and brush and a couple of caterpillars parked out there.
I'd never seen anything like it.
And he introduced me to the practice of cabling to clear land.
Why that sticks in my mind, I do not know.
Or going to a gin.
in Wesley Cole at night and watching them bring the wagons in, counting how long it took them to get a bailout and why it took so long or why they went so quickly with it.
Just little things like that.
We were talking about others.
Had you finished your list of people to whom you feel great gratitude?
Probably Roy Quinby.
He was not a cotton man, but he did the cotton work at Chillicothe.
But he was... That's a very severe environment for growing row crops.
He taught me a little about dry land farming in the Rolling Plains of Texas, for instance.
Paul Lyarly in El Paso,
taught me a good bit about.
How you read cotton for that unique environment in that real lower in that Rio Grande Valley below El Paso.
All those people had quite an influence on on what I felt and what I learned and and gave me things to apply Knox Walker and etymology.
They helped to me.
There's too many of them.
I can't name them all.
Of all the research locations other than College Station, for whatever reason, what were your favorite places?
We're not going to ask the unfavorite.
Which ones did you enjoy going to visit most?
El Paso?
Wesley Cole?
Why those two?
Well, for one thing, they were different.
That was the first thing.
They were very different for me.
So that it wasn't like going into my own material.
Wesley Co.
was different.
I enjoyed working around Corpus Christi.
Later years when Texas A&M acquired the
the old Renner Research Station north of Dallas.
We began to work up there.
They had no cotton.
There hadn't been any cotton work up in that country since they closed out the Greenville Station in the 50s.
And they accommodated us.
I even had an office up there.
Huey Whitehurst, who was the director up there, was an extremely personable, knowledgeable, and helpful man.
I enjoyed working up there.
What we did was not particularly satisfying, because that really is not, was not a good place to do cotton.
But it was nice to work there.
It was fun to work there.
The old station up in McGregor, a man by the name of Henry Hill was the director up there.
And boy, we used to go up there and sweat like the Dickens.
But they made you feel welcome, and you felt as though you were doing something visible that people appreciated knowing about and seeing.
That was the fun part of working with people like that.
Based on your knowledge of the cotton production, where is the easiest place to grow cotton in Texas?
The easiest place?
Cost of land is not a factor.
Okay, now, I wasn't even thinking about that.
The easiest place to grow, Texas, Brazos' bottom's not bad.
The lower Rio Grande Valley, they probably have fewer real bad years than anyone else.
Corpuses can be pretty tough.
Brazos' bottom, year in, year out, is not bad.
The high plains, the weather up there can deal you misery so quickly.
Now, where would the insects be the worst?
Brazos bottom.
Is that it?
Okay.
Brazos bottom, corpus area.
When did, in your experience, when did people start spraying cotton by airplanes?
Was that being done in the 50s?
Yeah.
That went back probably into the late 40s with the beginning of the Delta Airlines right down there in the bottom.
Now, when I first came here, a lot of the insect control was done with mounted sprayers, mechanical sprayers.
But the use of airplanes really came into its own.
And when you got here, cotton was already being harvested by machines.
It was in that transition period.
Oh, okay.
It was in transition period.
Of course, they'd harvested with stripper machines for years.
Yeah.
Up in the Blacklands and particularly in the High Plains.
But the spindle picker was really coming into its own initially in the valley, then up in this area.
Then into the Corpus area.
How easy was it when integration came about, racial integration at Texas A&M?
Do you remember any problems with minorities, black, be they black or other, in the kind of work y'all were doing?
No.
What about women?
Did they have any problems when women were admitted to A&M?
Not that I can recall.
Obviously, there was some resistance to it, but it was not too overt.
Well, our Dottie, Annie, who you know, was one of the early ones, you know.
She went to school.
What year?
Well, let's see, when she graduated,
She must have graduated about 1971.
So she would have been one of them.
She was one of the earlier classes.
I don't think she had any problems.
It was a peaceful place.
Let's see, some unwritten rules or practices which you followed as a professional, when smoking, drinking, this, that, and the other, when you were on the job.
You didn't do it.
Didn't, was it okay to smoke?
Yeah.
In the lab?
Did it, in those years, did that change?
Hmm, probably not by mandate.
No, but I mean in fact.
Oh yeah, in fact it did, certainly.
When you all were on the road, what was the norm about having a beer or any other kind of alcohol?
As long as you used some discretion with it, I can't ever recall running into a problem.
And certainly there was never, I can't recall anybody ever telling me
me or anybody else.
Hey, you shall not do this.
But was it the common practice that nobody would ever, when they were out at one of the experiment stations and spending the night in the motel, that they wouldn't overdrink?
Was that the?
You just, that was just the facts of life.
That's what I assumed.
That's like opening the doors for a lady.
It was part of, it just was part of being there.
You didn't do it any other way.
Like I asked Fred Benson a long, long time ago.
I wish I could have interviewed him before his death.
Same kind of thing.
And he said, you didn't ever wink or make a pass at any female other than your own wife.
You didn't play poker for money.
unless you closed the blinds, if you and the buddies were, and if you were serving alcoholic beverage, you never, ever, ever served alcohol at any kind of an event in your home if there were students present.
I think that's right.
You just didn't do it.
You just knew it.
Yeah, yeah.
Let's see.
What have we not covered that we should have?
I haven't given you much.
It's very interesting.
I realize that, but we discussed that early, why I'm not, was not part of the campus scene.
Yeah, you weren't in the classroom very much.
No, I wasn't, no.
I remember mostly the people that I took classes with, the profs that I had.
Oh, sure.
Describe that.
Who were some of those people?
Wayne Hall.
Describe him as an instructor.
He was very good, very knowledgeable, tough, I thought.
But it was a tough subject.
One that made quite an impression on me was C.B.
Godby.
Had my first exposure to biometry and statistics with that man.
He was kind of a fatherly, patriarchal character, which highly respected all of us graduate students.
Took his courses.
We loved him.
I'm trying to think who, it's interesting, God be made more an impression on me than anybody, I suppose.
Now, who directed your dissertation?
Richmond.
Hall was on my committee.
That's right.
Do you remember any, any question, key questions by anybody at your doctoral defense?
Yeah.
I don't remember who asked this.
It might have been Wayne Hall.
If I knew what a Kentucky, a Kentucky some kind of horse was.
Well, that would probably have been Hall, because he was at Kentucky.
And I didn't have to do that.
The rest of the committee sat there and argued about it for 10 or 15 minutes.
I just sat there and listened.
That was fun.
and uh let's see when you uh when you you finished your degree in what year 59 59 so was rudder yet the president rudder was or had just been designated probably i think he was president okay would that be on there
No.
Harrington's on.
Harrington, okay.
And Heaton.
No, the president's not on there.
I think Rudder, he must have been president then.
As a member of the professional group here at A&M, how much did you see of Earl Rudder while he was president?
Not much.
What was your, what impression did you have of him?
Well, nothing spectacular, nothing specific.
He just was president.
He was over there, and he used to come once in a while to a meeting or to our staff conferences, but I had no, certainly no direct contact with him.
And then when Hall became his vice president of academic affairs, did you agricultural people feel good about that?
Probably.
I don't remember particularly.
And, let's see, Dean of Agriculture during, was Patterson?
Patterson.
Describe him.
R.E.
Patterson.
Describe him as far as you recall the way you all thought of him as Dean.
Patterson could be difficult.
How else can I describe?
One day you could go in to see him and he was just congenial.
And if he didn't like something or it hit him wrong, he could be very verbal about it.
All right.
Then when he moved up to the system level, Gus Watkins then kind of followed.
Was he different?
Gus, oh yeah.
Gus was a very personable, easy going, easy to get along with.
I thought very good.
As an administrator, I really don't know.
But as a person in that post, I thought Gus was great.
What about Harry Kunkel?
I didn't have great rapport with Kunkel.
I had a class from him, one of the first classes he taught here in biochemical genetics.
I found that people either liked him as an instructor or didn't like him as an instructor.
Very indifferent about him as an instructor.
I was not very impressed.
But my contacts with him beyond that didn't particularly impress me either.
I found him contentious much of the time.
Then when Dr. Williams came, did you all have any
Any impression of him?
No, not really, because he was an outsider.
He was academically oriented.
He was a different thing.
So if anything, we probably sort of held our breath and said, well, we got a new one now that's not one of our breed.
In the 60s and 70s and 80s, did the, all of the faculty and staff in agriculture get together once a semester or once a year for any kind of big meeting?
Yeah.
We had an annual conference.
Well, there were two.
There was an extension conference.
There was an experiment station conference.
Well, nearly all of the people in agriculture who even were teaching were part of the experiment station.
There weren't too many, I think, that were full teaching faculty.
And how long did those last and what was their function?
About three days.
Where were they here?
And what was the purpose of them?
That's what we always wondered.
We used to think it was a good, a good occasion for the directors to kind of lay down the law and review programs and,
talk about what is in store, legislative outlooks, new programs.
They would bring in some pretty good speakers from other universities.
Was there some appropriate bragging of accomplishments by Texas A&M?
Yeah, yeah, to some extent.
As far as y'all were aware, you and your colleagues, in Austin, which governor or other
public officials deserve greatest credit for supporting A&M's research and other companies?
I can't answer that.
I don't know.
So you don't know of any?
There was nobody that was supposedly Tiger Teague or John Conley or?
Teague probably, thinking back over the years, probably had as much identification with A&M as anyone that we knew about.
Connelly, not particularly.
No, I stayed too, too remote from that sort of thing.
Let's see, and I asked you before if there were any ideas or proposals that you sent forward that didn't get funded and... Oh yeah, I had some of those.
But, but... But nothing.
No major.
No.
Just minor disappointments.
What else have we not covered that we should have?
I thought of something a minute ago that's just a bit of an anecdote.
We were talking about parking, what it is now and what it used to be.
Oh, good, good.
Describe that.
Remember when we were in that old Experiment Station building up there on the campus?
We parked right outside, of course.
Bloodworth had his space.
And it was so marked.
As I recall, maybe the only reserved one.
And it was always a great
challenge for somebody to come in and park in Bloodworth's place.
And if he'd find it, he had a big, as I recall, an orange placard at Easy.
He'd taken plaster on the driver's side of that car with a note, you know, it'd be drawn and quartered.
In fact, at his funeral, I recall that, and everybody in the audience that was around got a chuckle out, because we used to laugh about it.
Now, the people who did park, were they likely to be a student or?
Yeah, yeah.
Okay.
They'd sneak and park in his place, and he did not take kindly to that.
Where, where, normal work day, where did you and your colleagues
have coffee mid-morning or socialize, and where'd you have lunch?
Well, to be very honest, I didn't do much of the socializing.
When we were in the old Experiment Station building, we had a sort of a room, a coffee mess.
But we didn't congregate much there because it wasn't large enough.
Oh, okay.
We did that mostly in our own quarters.
Later on, as we got into the other big building over the Heap Building, there is a lecture room up there, and which, adjacent to the coffee mess, and that is normally where folks about 10 o'clock congregate for social.
I did very little of that, because usually I was at my lab that's over behind the vet.
complex.
So I wasn't into that.
Where did you eat lunch on a normal work day?
Oh, sometimes we'd run across the railroad tracks to one of those hamburger places or occasionally and have my lunch or I'd run home.
In those days you could run home.
Alright, now what else?
Can you think of any truly goofy and or remember any jokes, any good bull in the research lab or anything that
No, I can.
After you leave, I probably will, and after I lie down tonight, before I go to sleep.
But also, you all didn't have run-of-the-mill undergraduates, and you didn't have corps members and all that.
No.
Oh, I'm talking about these high school students that we used.
It was great having the kids around.
And of course, kids being kids, they used to goof up.
We had some very specific ways of accommodating their misdeeds.
And one of them will remind me of this occasionally when I run into them.
One of the punishments we used to do, well first let me go back and say a major fun thing for the kids when we weren't around, was to chunk green bowls at each other.
I'll have to come back to that, the fact that we used to farm a lot out here.
And one way we used to make them atone for that, we had cotton trailers.
Remember how they were slatted side and so forth.
Our favorite thing was to park one of those out in the open, give them an inch and a half paintbrush, a couple or three of them, and make them paint a cotton trailer in the middle of the summer.
Horrible job.
Hot as the dickens.
That's what they'd have to do.
Did any, did y'all have to worry in the real world about them in the cotton patch stumbling onto any kind of snake or insect that would bite them or anything?
Because no centipedes or?
No.
That's what I thought.
No snakes out there, are there?
No.
So you didn't have to worry about that.
When those high school youngsters were doing that kind of work, where did they have lunch
Did you all take food out to them?
No, no.
They brought their own lunch.
Okay.
Some of them might not come in the morning at all.
Because this could be during hot weather.
Oh, yeah.
And they'd come into the lab and have their lunch.
But that was a nice time.
You can't do that anymore.
You know, in my later years there, we couldn't do that.
could hardly hire a youngster.
As you look back on that, all those years, how was your life affected, as you think about it, by the fact that you ended up being a professional at Texas A&M instead of, what was different about A&M as far as you can recall?
I was very proud to be a Texas Aggie.
I was proud to be an employee of Texas A&M University.
I thought it was, yeah, I was pretty proud of that.
And I enjoyed going anywhere and being able to say I am from Texas A&M University because it meant something.
Did you feel that A&M was making real progress during the year?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
And in the field I was in, there wasn't any better.
The only one that could come close to it maybe would have been North Carolina State, maybe Mississippi State, not really.
We were top dogs for a long while, I thought.
See, that's what I tell people that, I've got a little speech I call Camelot on the Brazos, you know, the Kennedy family.
Camelot was a special time, special place.
During those years, we knew this place was moving forward.
Oh, yes.
It was, it was, it was making progress.
We were envied, at least in the field I was in.
And I can remember running into this when we'd go off to conferences and things.
Yeah, there was a bit of envy about, darn Texans, have everything, know everything.
And we used to monopolize things if we chose to do so.
Programs and things.
We're loaded with our people because we were pioneers in much of that research.
Okay.
I don't have what I can think of, but one question left.
Let me go back to something I just thought of a minute ago.
Oh, good, good.
See, what most people don't realize is that we used to do a lot of farming right out here at the so-called agronomy farm.
Historically, that goes back to the
1890s or something like that.
The vet school was a very small thing.
Physical plants was a very small thing and it wasn't out there.
I can remember when we had that old barn out there that there was grain sorghum and corn and soybeans and sunflowers and cotton and folks don't realize that that used to be
our basic research location.
Now you just don't do anything out there.
Okay, go ahead with your question.
Well, the last question I have is, what feelings do you carry in your heart for Texas A&M today?
I'm very proud of serving the university those years.
I feel very fortunate in the opportunity to have done that.
As I said earlier, I think I experienced the best years, maybe not of the university, but certainly of the Agricultural Experiment Station.
And I'm not alone with those feelings.